# Introduction


Document intelligence describes AI capabilities that support processing text and making sense of information in text. As an extension of optical character recognition (OCR), document intelligence takes the next step a person might after reading a form or document. It automates the process of extracting, understanding, and saving the data in text.


Document intelligence relies on machine learning models that are trained to recognize data in text. The ability to extract text, layout, and key-value pairs are known as _document analysis_. Document analysis provides locations of text on a page identified by bounding box coordinates.


**Azure AI Document Intelligence** consists of features grouped by model type:

- **Prebuilt models** - pretrained models that have been built to process common document types such as invoices, business cards, ID documents, and more. These models are designed to recognize and extract specific fields that are important for each document type.
- **Custom models** - can be trained to identify specific fields that are not included in the existing pretrained models.
- **Document analysis** - general document analysis that returns structured data representations, including regions of interest and their inter-relationships.

## Prebuilt models

The prebuilt models apply advanced machine learning to accurately identify and extract text, key-value pairs, tables, and structures from forms and documents. These capabilities include extracting:

- customer and vendor details from invoices
- sales and transaction details from receipts
- identification and verification details from identity documents
- health insurance details
- business contact details
- agreement and party details from contracts
- taxable compensation, mortgage interest, student loan details and more

The model has been trained to recognize several different languages, depending on the receipt type. For best results when using the prebuilt receipt model, images should be:

- JPEG, PNG, BMP, PDF, or TIFF format
- File size less than 500 MB for paid (S0) tier and 4 MB for free (F0) tier
- Between 50 x 50 pixels and 10000 x 10000 pixels
- For PDF documents, no larger than 17 inches x 17 inches
- One receipt per document




# Knowledge check


1.

You plan to use Azure AI Document Intelligence's prebuilt receipt model. Which kind of Azure resource should you create?

Azure AI Vision resource

Azure AI Document Intelligence or Azure AI services resource.

Correct: Both the Azure AI Document Intelligence resource and the Azure AI services resource provide access to Azure AI Document Intelligence.

Azure AI Language resource.

2.

You are using the Azure AI Document Intelligence service to analyze receipts. Which field types does the service recognize?

Merchant retail type.

Merchant name and address.

Correct: The merchant name and address can be identified using the receipt model.

Merchant name and date of incorporation.

3.

What is required to use the receipt analyzer service in Azure AI Document Intelligence?

Train the model on sample receipts from your organization.

Create an Azure AI Document Intelligence resource.

Correct: The receipt analyzer model is available as a service when you create an Azure AI Document Intelligence resource.

Nothing - receipt analyzer is available once you create an Azure subscription.


# Summary

Azure AI Document Intelligence provides access to prebuilt and custom models for extracting text from various documents, such as receipts, invoices, IDs, and more.