
## Capabilities of OpenAI AI models

There are several categories of capabilities found in OpenAI AI models, three of these include:

| Capability                    | Examples                                                                                                                            |
| ----------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| _Generating natural language_ | Such as: summarizing complex text for different reading levels, suggesting alternative wording for sentences, _and much more_       |
| _Generating code_             | Such as: translating code from one programming language into another, identifying and troubleshooting bugs in code, _and much more_ |
| _Generating images_           | Such as: generating images for publications from text descriptions _and much more_                                                  |

# What is generative AI

OpenAI makes its AI models available to developers to build powerful software applications, such as ChatGPT. There are tons of [other examples of OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/examples) applications on the OpenAI site, ranging from practical, such as generating text from code, to purely entertaining, such as making up scary stories.

Let's identify where OpenAI models fit into the AI landscape.

- **Artificial Intelligence** imitates human behavior by relying on machines to learn and execute tasks without explicit directions on what to output.
- **Machine learning** algorithms take in data like weather conditions and fit models to the data, to make predictions like how much money a store might make in a given day.
- **Deep learning** models use layers of algorithms in the form of artificial neural networks to return results for more complex use cases. Many Azure AI services are built on deep learning models. You can check out this article to learn more about the [difference between machine learning and deep learning.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/concept-deep-learning-vs-machine-learning)
- **Generative AI** models can produce new content based on what is described in the input. The OpenAI models are a collection of generative AI models that can produce language, code, and images.

Next you'll learn how Azure OpenAI gives users the ability to combine Azure's enterprise-grade solutions with many of OpenAI's same generative AI models.


# Describe Azure OpenAI


Microsoft has partnered with OpenAI to deliver on three main goals:

- To utilize Azure's infrastructure, including security, compliance, and regional availability, to help users build enterprise-grade applications.
- To deploy OpenAI AI model capabilities across Microsoft products, including and beyond Azure AI products.
- To use Azure to power all of OpenAI's workloads.


## Introduction to Azure OpenAI Service

Azure OpenAI Service is a result of the partnership between Microsoft and OpenAI. The service combines Azure's enterprise-grade capabilities with OpenAI's generative AI model capabilities.

Azure OpenAI is available for Azure users and consists of four components:

- Pre-trained generative AI models
- Customization capabilities; the ability to fine-tune AI models with your own data
- Built-in tools to detect and mitigate harmful use cases so users can implement AI responsibly
- Enterprise-grade security with role-based access control (RBAC) and private networks

Using Azure OpenAI allows you to transition between your work with Azure services and OpenAI, while utilizing Azure's private networking, regional availability, and responsible AI content filtering.


### Azure OpenAI's relationship to Azure AI services

Note
>As of July 2023, Azure AI services encompass all of what were previously known as Cognitive Services and Azure Applied AI Services.

Azure AI services are tools for solving AI workloads. The services you choose to use depend on what you need to accomplish. In particular, there are several overlapping capabilities between Azure AI Language service and Azure OpenAI Service, such as translation, sentiment analysis, and keyword extraction.

While there's no strict guidance on when to use a particular service, Azure AI Language service can be used for widely known use-cases that require minimal tuning (the process of optimizing a model's performance). Azure OpenAI Service may be more beneficial for use-cases that require highly customized generative models, or for exploratory research.

Note
>Pricing is different for Azure OpenAI and Azure AI Language service. [Learn more here](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/cognitive-services/openai-service).

When making business decisions about what type of model to use, it's important to understand how time and compute needs factor into machine learning training. In order to produce an effective machine learning model, the model needs to be trained with a substantial amount of cleaned data. The 'learning' portion of training requires a computer to identify an algorithm that best fits the data. The complexity of the task the model needs to solve for and the desired level of model performance all factor into the time required to run through possible solutions for a best fit algorithm.

# Understand OpenAI's natural language capabilities


Azure OpenAI's natural language models are able to take in natural language and generate responses.

Natural language learning models are trained on words or chunks of characters known as _tokens_. For example, the word "hamburger" gets broken up into the tokens `ham`, `bur`, and `ger`, while a short and common word like "pear" is a single token. These tokens are mapped into vectors for a machine learning model to use for training. When a trained natural language model takes in a user's input, it also breaks down the input into tokens.

## Understanding GPT models for natural language generation

Generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) models are excellent at both understanding and creating natural language. If you've seen recent news around AI answering questions or writing a paragraph based on a prompt, it likely could have been generated by a GPT model such as GPT-35-Turbo or GPT-4.

#### What does a response from a GPT model look like?

A key aspect of OpenAI's generative AI is that it takes an input, or **prompt**, to return a natural language, visual, or code response. GPT tries to infer, or guess, the context of the user's question based on the prompt.

GPT models are great at completing several natural language tasks, some of which include:

|Task|Prompt|
|---|---|
|Summarizing text|"Summarize this text into a short blurb"|
|Classifying text|"What genre of book is this?"|
|Generating names or phrases|"Write a tagline for my flower company"|
|Translation|"Translate 'How are you' to French"|
|Answering questions|"What does Azure OpenAI do?"|
|Suggesting content|"Give me the five best weddings songs"|

For example, given a prompt where the user types in text asking for a cooking recipe:

```
Write a recipe based on these ingredients and instructions:

Fruit Pie

Ingredients:
Strawberries
Blueberries
Flour
Eggs
Milk
```

Here's an example of the OpenAI API generated response:

```
Instructions:

1. Preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit.

2. In a medium bowl, mix together 1 cup of flour and 1 egg until it forms a dough.

3. Grease a 9-inch pie dish with butter or non-stick cooking spray.

4. Roll out the dough and place it in the pie dish.

5. In a separate bowl, mix together 1 cup of strawberries, 1 cup of blueberries, and 1 cup of milk.

6. Pour the fruit mixture into the pie dish.

7. Bake
```

Delicious - maybe! It's important to understand that the generated responses are best guesses from a machine. In this case, the generated text may be useful for cooking something that tastes good in real life, or not.

## How models are applied to new use cases

You may have tried out ChatGPT's predictive capabilities in a chat portal, where you can type prompts and receive automated responses. The portal consists of the front-end user interface (UI) users see, and a back-end that includes a generative AI model. The combination of the front and back end can be described as a chatbot. The model provided on the back end is what is available as a building block with both the OpenAI API and Azure OpenAI API. You can utilize ChatGPT's capabilities on Azure OpenAI via the GPT-35-turbo model. When you see generative AI capabilities in other applications, developers have taken the building blocks, customized them to a use case, and built them into the back end of new front-end user interfaces.

## GitHub Copilot

OpenAI partnered with GitHub to create GitHub Copilot, which they call an AI pair programmer. GitHub Copilot integrates the power of OpenAI Codex into a plugin for developer environments like Visual Studio Code.

## DALL-E

In addition to natural language capabilities, generative AI models can edit and create images. The model that works with images is called DALL-E. Much like GPT models, subsequent versions of DALL-E are appended onto the name, such as DALL-E 2. Image capabilities generally fall into the three categories of image creation, editing an image, and creating variations of an image.


# Describe Azure OpenAI's access and responsible AI policies


It's important to consider the ethical implications of working with AI systems. Azure OpenAI provides powerful natural language models capable of completing various tasks and operating in several different use cases, each with their own considerations for safe and fair use. Teams or individuals tasked with developing and deploying AI systems should work to identify, measure, and mitigate harm.

Usage of Azure OpenAI should follow the six Microsoft [AI principles](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/concept-responsible-ai):

- **Fairness**: AI systems shouldn't make decisions that discriminate against or support bias of a group or individual.
- **Reliability and Safety**: AI systems should respond safely to new situations and potential manipulation.
- **Privacy and Security**: AI systems should be secure and respect data privacy.
- **Inclusiveness**: AI systems should empower everyone and engage people.
- **Accountability**: People must be accountable for how AI systems operate.
- **Transparency**: AI systems should have explanations so users can understand how they're built and used.

# Knowledge check

1.

How are ChatGPT, OpenAI, and Azure OpenAI related?

Azure OpenAI is Microsoft's version of ChatGPT, a chatbot that uses generative AI models.

ChatGPT and OpenAI are chatbots that generate natural language, code, and images. Azure OpenAI provides access to these two chatbots.

OpenAI is a research company that developed ChatGPT, a chatbot that uses generative AI models. Azure OpenAI provides access to many of OpenAI's AI models.

Correct.

2.

You would like to summarize a paragraph of text. Which generative AI model family would you use to solve for this workload?

GPT.

Correct.

Codex.

Dall-E.

3.

What is one action Microsoft takes to support ethical AI practices in Azure OpenAI?

Provides Transparency Notes that share how technology is built and asks users to consider its implications.

Correct.

Logs users out of Azure OpenAI Studio after a period of inactivity to ensure it's only used by one user.

Allows users to build any application, regardless of harmful effects, to ensure fairness.


# Summary


This module introduced you to the concept of generative AI and how Azure OpenAI Service provides access to generative AI models.

In this module, you also learned how to:

- Describe Azure OpenAI workloads and how to access the Azure OpenAI Service
- Understand generative AI models
- Understand Azure OpenAI's language, code, and image capabilities
- Understand Azure OpenAI's Responsible AI practices and Limited Access Policy