# Introduction


Azure AI services provides a cloud-based platform for building artificial intelligence capabilities into your applications. Like any software service, you should monitor AI services to track costs, identify utilization trends, and detect potential issues.

After completing this module, you'll be able to:

- Monitor Azure AI services costs.
- Create alerts and view metrics for Azure AI services.
- Manage Azure AI services diagnostic logging.

## Plan costs for AI services

Before deploying a solution that depends on AI services, you can estimate costs by using the [Azure Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/).

To use the pricing calculator to estimate AI services costs, create a new estimate and select **Azure AI services** in the **AI + Machine Learning** category. Then select the specific AI service API you plan to use (for example, _Azure AI Text Analytics_), the region where you plan to provision it, and the pricing tier of the instance you plan to use; and fill in the expected usage metrics and support option. To create an estimate that includes multiple AI services APIs, add additional **Azure AI services** products to the estimate.

After you've created an estimate, you can save it. You can also export it in Microsoft Excel format.

## View costs for AI services

In common with other Azure resources, you can view details of accumulated costs for AI services resources in the Azure portal.

To view costs for AI services, sign into the Azure portal and select your subscription. You can then view overall costs for the subscription by selecting the **Cost analysis** tab. To view only costs for AI services, add a filter that restricts the data to reflect resources with a **service name** of **Cognitive Services**.


# Create alerts


Microsoft Azure provides alerting support for resources through the creation of _alert rules_. You use alert rules to configure notifications and alerts for your resources based on events or metric thresholds. These alerts will ensure that the correct team knows when a problem arises.

## Alert rules

To create an alert rule for an Azure AI services resource, select the resource in the Azure portal and on the **Alerts** tab, add a new alert rule. To define the alert rule, you must specify:

- The _scope_ of the alert rule - in other words, the resource you want to monitor.
- A _condition_ on which the alert is triggered. The specific trigger for the alert is based on a _signal type_, which can be _Activity Log_ (an entry in the activity log created by an action performed on the resource, such as regenerating its subscription keys) or _Metric_ (a metric threshold such as the number of errors exceeding 10 in an hour).
- Optional _actions_, such as sending an email to an administrator notifying them of the alert, or running an Azure Logic App to address the issue automatically.
- _Alert rule details_, such as a name for the alert rule and the resource group in which it should be defined.

# View metrics


Azure Monitor collects metrics for Azure resources at regular intervals so that you can track indicators of resource utilization, health, and performance. The specific metrics gathered depend on the Azure resource. In the case of Azure AI services, Azure Monitor collects metrics relating to endpoint requests, data submitted and returned, errors, and other useful measurements.


# Manage diagnostic logging


Diagnostic logging enables you to capture rich operational data for an Azure AI services resource, which can be used to analyze service usage and troubleshoot problems.

## Create resources for diagnostic log storage

To capture diagnostic logs for an AI services resource, you need a destination for the log data. You can use Azure Event Hubs as a destination in order to then forward the data on to a custom telemetry solution, and you can connect directly to some third-party solutions; but in most cases you'll use one (or both) of the following kinds of resource within your Azure subscription:

- **Azure Log Analytics** - a service that enables you to query and visualize log data within the Azure portal.
- **Azure Storage** - a cloud-based data store that you can use to store log archives (which can be exported for analysis in other tools as needed).

You should create these resources before configuring diagnostic logging for your AI services resource. If you intend to archive log data to Azure Storage, create the Azure Storage account in the same region as your AI services resource.


## Configure diagnostic settings

With your log destinations in place, you can configure diagnostic settings for your AI services resource. You define diagnostic settings on the **Diagnostic settings** page of the blade for your AI services resource in the Azure portal. When you add diagnostic settings, you must specify:

- A name for your diagnostic settings.
- The categories of log event data that you want to capture.
- Details of the destinations in which you want to store the log data.


# Knowledge check


1.

How should you collect telemetry for your Azure AI Services resource for later analysis?

Create an alert.

Configure diagnostic settings.

Correct. Diagnostic settings enable you to capture data for subsequent analysis.

Create a dashboard.

2.

You are defining an alert that notifies you when a key regeneration event is recorded in the activity log for your Azure AI Services resource. What should you do?

Specify a Scope of Activity Log.

Specify an Action that uses an Azure Logic App to read the activity log.

Specify a Condition with a Signal Type of Activity Log.

Correct. The Regenerate Key event is an Activity Log signal.

3.

You are viewing a metric for your Azure AI Services resource in a chart. You want to combine the chart with visualizations of other resources and data. What should you do?

Add the chart to a dashboard.

Correct. A dashboard enables you to combine visualizations from multiple resources.

Share the chart.

Clone the chart.