
image files of road signs, advertisements, or writing on a chalk board. Machines can read the text in the images using _optical character recognition_ (OCR), the capability for artificial intelligence (AI) to process words in images into machine-readable text.

The ability for computer systems to process written and printed text is an area of AI where _computer vision_ intersects with _natural language processing_. Vision capabilities are needed to "read" the text, and then natural language processing capabilities make sense of it.

## Azure AI Vision's OCR Engine

Azure AI Vision service has the ability to extract machine-readable text from images. Azure AI Vision's _Read API_ is the OCR engine that powers text extraction from images, PDFs, and TIFF files. OCR for images is optimized for general, non-document images that makes it easier to embed OCR in your user experience scenarios.

The Read API, otherwise known as _Read OCR engine_, uses the latest recognition models and is optimized for images that have a significant amount of text or have considerable visual noise. It can automatically determine the proper recognition model to use taking into consideration the number of lines of text, images that include text, and handwriting.

The OCR engine takes in an image file and identifies bounding boxes, or coordinates, where items are located within an image. In OCR, the model identifies bounding boxes around anything that appears to be text in the image.

Calling the Read API returns results arranged into the following hierarchy:

- **Pages** - One for each page of text, including information about the page size and orientation.
- **Lines** - The lines of text on a page.
- **Words** - The words in a line of text, including the bounding box coordinates and text itself.

# Knowledge check

Completed 200 XP

- 2 minutes

1.

You want to extract text from images and then use Azure AI Language to analyze the text. You want developers to require only one key and endpoint to access all of your services. What kind of resource should you create in your Azure subscription?

Azure AI Vision

Azure AI services

Correct. An Azure AI services resource supports both Azure AI Vision for text extraction, and Azure AI Language for text analytics.

Azure AI Language

2.

You plan to use Azure AI Vision's Read API. What results can the Read API provide?

Results arranged in pages, lines, and words

Correct: The Read API takes an image and extracts the words, organizing the results by page and line.

Only the bounding box coordinates

Results arranged by pages that have photographs first, then pages that exclusively have text





# Summary


Optical character recognition (OCR) has been around for a long time. The ability to do the same extraction from images is where the Read API can help. The Read API provides the ability to extract large amounts of typewritten or handwritten text from images.