_Conversational AI_ describes solutions that enable a dialog between an AI agent and a human. Generically, conversational AI agents are known as bots. People can engage with bots through channels such as web chat interfaces, email, social media platforms, and more.


**Question answering** supports natural language AI workloads that require an automated conversational element. Typically, question answering is used to build bot applications that respond to customer queries. Question answering capabilities can respond immediately, answer concerns accurately, and interact with users in a natural multi-turned way. Bots can be implemented on a range of platforms, such as a web site or a social media platform.



# Knowledge check


1.

Your organization has an existing frequently asked questions (FAQ) document. You need to create a knowledge base that includes the questions and answers from the FAQ with the least possible effort. What should you do?

Create an empty knowledge base, and then manually copy and paste the FAQ entries into it.

Import the existing FAQ document into a new knowledge base.

Correct. You can import question and answer pairs from an existing FAQ document into a question answering knowledge base.

Import a pre-defined chit-chat data source.

2.

You want to create a knowledge base for your organization’s bot service. Which Azure AI service is best suited to creating a knowledge base?

Conversational Language Understanding

Question Answering

Correct. Question Answering is part of the Azure AI Language service and enables you to create a knowledge base of question and answer pairs

Optical Character Recognition



# Summary


Azure AI Language's custom question answering feature enables you to define and publish a knowledge base of questions and answers with support for natural language querying. When combined with Azure AI Bot Service, you can use a knowledge base to deliver a bot that responds intelligently to user questions over multiple communication channels.

The ability to create conversational AI solutions with these services makes it possible for AI agents to reduce the support workload for human personnel; enabling organizations to provide user support at global scale.