

# Describe conversational language understanding


To work with conversational language understanding, you need to take into account three core concepts: _utterances_, _entities_, and _intents_.

## Utterances

An utterance is an example of something a user might say, and which your application must interpret. For example, when using a home automation system, a user might use the following utterances:

> "_Switch the fan on._"
> 
> "_Turn on the light._"


## Entities

An entity is an item to which an utterance refers. For example, **fan** and **light** in the following utterances:

> "_Switch the _**fan**_ on._"
> 
> "_Turn on the _**light**_._"


## Intents

An intent represents the purpose, or goal, expressed in a user's utterance. For example, for both of the previously considered utterances, the intent is to turn a device on; so in your conversational language understanding application, you might define a **TurnOn** intent that is related to these utterances.


# Get started with conversational language understanding in Azure



**Azure AI Language**'s conversational language understanding feature enables you to author a language model and use it for predictions. Authoring a model involves defining entities, intents, and utterances. Generating predictions involves publishing a model so that client applications can take user input and return responses.
- **Azure AI Language**: A resource that enables you to build apps with industry-leading natural language understanding capabilities without machine learning expertise. You can use a language resource for _authoring_ and _prediction_.
- **Azure AI services**: A general resource that includes conversational language understanding along with many other Azure AI services. You can only use this type of resource for _prediction_.

### Training the model

After you have defined the intents and entities in your model, and included a suitable set of sample utterances; the next step is to train the model. Training is the process of using your sample utterances to teach your model to match natural language expressions that a user might say to probable intents and entities.

After training the model, you can test it by submitting text and reviewing the predicted intents. Training and testing is an iterative process. After you train your model, you test it with sample utterances to see if the intents and entities are recognized correctly. If they're not, make updates, retrain, and test again.


# Knowledge check


1.

You need to provision an Azure resource that will be used to **author** a new conversational language understanding application. What kind of resource should you create?

Azure AI Speech

Azure AI Language

Correct. To author a conversational language understanding model, you need an Azure AI Language resource.

Azure AI services

2.

You are authoring a conversational language understanding application to support an international clock. You want users to be able to ask for the current time in a specified city, for example "What is the time in London?". What should you do?

Define a "city" entity and a "GetTime" intent with utterances that indicate the city entity.

Correct. The intent encapsulates the task (getting the time) and the entity specifies the item to which the intent is applied (the city).

Create an intent for each city, each with an utterance that asks for the time in that city.

Add the utterance "What time is it in city" to the "None" intent.

3.

You have published your conversational language understanding application. What information does a client application developer need to get predictions from it?

The endpoint and key for the application's prediction resource

Correct. Client applications must connect to the endpoint of the prediction resource, specifying an associated authentication key.

The endpoint and key for the application's authoring resource

The Azure credentials of the user who published the language understanding application


# Summary

You can use conversational language understanding to build a model that predicts intents and entities from natural language utterances. A client application can then use this trained model to respond to natural language user input.