# Introduction



AI speech capabilities enable us to manage home and auto systems with voice instructions, get answers from computers for spoken questions, generate captions from audio, and much more.

To enable this kind of interaction, the AI system must support two capabilities:

- **Speech recognition** - the ability to detect and interpret spoken input
- **Speech synthesis** - the ability to generate spoken output

# Understand speech recognition and synthesis


**Speech recognition** takes the spoken word and converts it into data that can be processed - often by transcribing it into text. The spoken words can be in the form of a recorded voice in an audio file, or live audio from a microphone. Speech patterns are analyzed in the audio to determine recognizable patterns that are mapped to words. To accomplish this, the software typically uses multiple models, including:

- An _acoustic_ model that converts the audio signal into phonemes (representations of specific sounds).
- A _language_ model that maps phonemes to words, usually using a statistical algorithm that predicts the most probable sequence of words based on the phonemes.
The recognized words are typically converted to text, which you can use for various purposes, such as:

- Providing closed captions for recorded or live videos
- Creating a transcript of a phone call or meeting
- Automated note dictation
- Determining intended user input for further processing

**Speech synthesis** is concerned with vocalizing data, usually by converting text to speech. A speech synthesis solution typically requires the following information:

- The text to be spoken
- The voice to be used to vocalize the speech
To synthesize speech, the system typically _tokenizes_ the text to break it down into individual words, and assigns phonetic sounds to each word


# Get started with speech on Azure

Completed 100 XP

- 3 minutes

Microsoft Azure offers both speech recognition and speech synthesis capabilities through **Azure AI Speech** service, which includes the following application programming interfaces (APIs):

- The **Speech to text** API
- The **Text to speech** API

### Real-time transcription

Real-time speech to text allows you to transcribe text in audio streams. You can use real-time transcription for presentations, demos, or any other scenario where a person is speaking.


### Batch transcription

Not all speech to text scenarios are real time. You might have audio recordings stored on a file share, a remote server, or even on Azure storage. You can point to audio files with a shared access signature (SAS) URI and asynchronously receive transcription results.


## The text to speech API

The text to speech API enables you to convert text input to audible speech, which can either be played directly through a computer speaker or written to an audio file.


### Speech synthesis voices

When you use the text to speech API, you can specify the voice to be used to vocalize the text. This capability offers you the flexibility to personalize your speech synthesis solution and give it a specific character.


# Knowledge check


1.

You plan to build an application that uses Azure AI Speech to transcribe audio recordings of phone calls into text, and then submit the transcribed text to Azure AI Language to extract key phrases. You want to manage access and billing for the application services with a single Azure resource. Which type of Azure resource should you create?

Speech

Language

Azure AI services

Correct. This resource would support both the Azure AI Speech and Azure AI Language services.

2.

You want to use Azure AI Speech service to build an application that reads incoming email message subjects aloud. Which API should you use?

Speech to text

Text to speech

Correct. The Text to speech API converts text to audible speech.

Translator


# Summary



Speech recognition is concerned with taking the spoken word and converting it into text, while speech synthesis is the process of converting text to audible speech. Both of these tasks are supported by Azure AI Speech.